---
layout: post
title: "Chapter 1"
categories: solutions_randomized
permalink: /solutions/randomized/1
excerpt: Introduction

title_redirect_link: "/solutions/randomized"
title_redirect_name: "Back to Chapter List"
---
## Introduction

### Question 1
1. This is just looking for \\(Pr[X = 5]\\) where \\(X \sim Bin \left(10, \frac{1}{2} \right)\\). Which is given as:

   \\[ \binom{10}{5} {\frac{1}{2}}^{5} \\]

2. The observation here is that we can associate each sequence of \\(10\\) bits with its point-wise complement. And each sequence of \\(10\\) bits occurs with equal probability. So, discounting the cases where there are equally many heads as there are tails, we just need half of the remaining cases. So that makes it:

   \\[ \frac{1}{2} \left( 1 - \binom{10}{5} {\frac{1}{2}}^{5} \right) \\]

3. Conditioned on the first \\( 5 \\) outcomes, the probability that the next \\(5\\) flips satisfies the desired outcome is \\( \frac{1}{2}^5 \\). Now there are \\( 2^5 \\) possible (disjoint) outcomes for the first \\(5\\) flips and each occurs with probability \\( \frac{1}{2}^5 \\), so:

   \\[ 2^5 {\frac{1}{2}}^{10} = {\frac{1}{2}}^{5} \\]

### Question 2
1. There are \\(6\\) ways for both die to take on the same value, and \\(36\\) ways overall, with equal probability. Ergo the probability is

   \\[\frac{6}{36} = \frac{1}{6}\\]

2. There are \\(( 36 \\)) possible events, each occurring with the same probability. There are \\(( \binom{6}{2} \\)) desired outcomes. To see this, note that each desired outcome is just a pair of two elements from \\( \{1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6\} \\), where the smaller element will be the value that the second dice takes and the larger element will be the value that the first dice takes. Ergo:

   \\[ \frac{15}{36} \\]

3. The sum is even when both outcomes have the same parity. WLOG either parity has \\( 3^2 = 9 \\) outcomes, and since there are two parities, the probability is:

   \\[ \frac{18}{36} = \frac{1}{2} \\]

4. There perfect squares that can be obtained are \\(1, 4, \text{ and }9 \\). The probability that this occurs for each case is \\( \frac{1}{36}, \frac{2 + 1}{36}, \frac{1}{36} \\). So overall, this is:

   \\[ \frac{5}{36} \\]

### Question 3
1. We'll use the fact that \\((Pr[A \cup B] = Pr[A] + Pr[B] - Pr[A \cap B] \\)). Which is:

   \\[ \frac{1}{13} + \frac{1}{13} - \frac{1}{13} \cdot \frac{3}{51} \\]

2. It'll be easier to find the probability that no aces occur in the first 5 draws, then take the probability of its complement.

   \\[ 1 - \frac{48}{52} \cdot \frac{47}{51} \cdot \frac{46}{50} \cdot \frac{45}{49} \cdot \frac{44}{48} \\]

3. Just use Bayesian here:

	\\[ 13 \cdot \frac{4}{52} \cdot \frac{3}{51} \\]

4. We'll just use Bayesian here.

	\\[ \frac{13}{52} \cdot \frac{12}{51} \cdot \frac{11}{50} \cdot \frac{10}{49} \cdot \frac{9}{48}  \\]

5. There are \\( 2 \cdot \binom{13}{2}\\) possible pairing of ranks, each occuring with probability \\( \frac{4}{52} \cdot \frac{3}{51} \cdot \frac{4}{50} \cdot \frac{3}{49} \cdot \frac{2}{48}\\), so:

	\\[ 2 \cdot \binom{13}{2} \cdot \frac{4}{52} \cdot \frac{3}{51} \cdot \frac{4}{50} \cdot \frac{3}{49} \cdot \frac{2}{48} \\]

