---
permalink: /algos/intro
title: "Why study algorithms."
layout: single
classes: wide
---

<!-- {% highlight python %}
def testing(input):
    print(input)
{% endhighlight %} -->

# 1. What are algorithms? From a layman's perspective
Algorithms might sound like something only "tech" people do. You might have 
heard about it in movies or TV shows. Every time someone wants to hide the 
details of doing something fancy on a computer they just say "I have this algorithm
that does all of it for me."

The truth is, the plainest description for what an algorithm is, to be frank, 
immensely mundane. In layman terms:

> (Informal) An **algorithm** is just a finite description of a set of steps 
to accomplish a given task, given some initial input or state.

I hope I've not actually scared you away from the study of algorithms itself. 
My point is, with loose enough terms, there are _a lot_ of things that can be 
viewed as an algorithm. 

Directions on how to get from your home to work, for example. A baking recipe.
A routine at the gym, even. 

All of the above generally provide a list of steps that need to be followed in
sequence. You might start with some ingredients, and upon finishing the 
steps, would arrive with some cinnamon rolls.

So in the most abstract sense, "algorithm" really is just a fancy term for "instructions".

It might be more instructive at this point to ask, _what isn't an algorithm_?
Anything which might not be well defined, or anything that does not really 
set out to accomplish a goal via a set of steps, would probably not be called 
an algorithm.

That said, it's pretty hard to actually draw a clear distinction right now. 
Luckily, I don't think it's all that important at this point (nor at any point)
to actually do this. The irony is that, over time, as you get comfortable with
algorithms, you might also come to agree that having a layman description of 
what an algorithm is, is really nigh on impossible, but at the same time 
not very important. 

This isn't to say that we should not have formal mathematical definitions for
what algorithms are. In fact, that is going to be really important for us.
Eventually when I come to introduce it much later on, we will talk about 
how mathematics has a strict sense of what an algorithm is, and how it 
differs from what I have mentioned above. 

I debated with myself many times over on how to answer the question on what a
good introduction.

# 2. What are algorithms? From a computer scientist's perspective
Alright, let's depart from the abstract and talk about what you're probably here for.  
